content/1-wrjournal.md, before:

---
title: Write Right Journal 
nav: Journal
---

# Write Right Journal 
Subatomic: Writing and editing tips and tricks.

# Lede
Great writing tips come from anywhere.

----------------------------------
#### Oct 22
- Multiple nut graphs with short words can be used to spell out the story. 
- Hyperlink embedded in the story.
- Create a simile from the relationships in the story
- let the reader know how the characters feel
- Set up quotes in advance, a prior sentence. 
- Write for Don. Tell a story in a conversation. 
- Animate the characters quoted.
- One-word exclamation works at the start or end of a paragraph, not in the middle.

#### Oct 19
- Interviewing Skills [[202410181608]]
     * Developing interviewing skills involves experimenting with various questions and approaches to foster trust and draw out honest responses.

#### Oct 17 
- Personal confession engagement. A way the reporter can be present in their story.
- Make a story containing how I, as the writer, learned or experienced something in the service of the story.
- Story and black cowboys and cowgirls
- What am I trying to convince the reader of? This is the start of the essential ideas in the story.
- Take the reader somewhere to show them where the digging happens. 

#### Oct 16
Start short paragraphs with these ideas.
- The town
- The grant
- The person
- Past/History then Now
- "It is said."
- Day to day
- "In an effort"
- Not the only
- The project promises to become
- This cycle
- Scientists make these projections
- The models are based on
- For example, 
- Researchers can use information about the
- This gives them more confidence in their projection
- To the soundtrack of ...

- [A casino project sparks conflict over tribal sovereignty and control of sacred lands](https://www.latimes.com/environment/story/2024-07-23/the-fight-over-a-mega-casino-sparks-a-debate-about-tribal-sovereignty)
- [A town's name recalls the massacre of Indigenous people. Will changing it bring healing?](https://www.latimes.com/environment/story/2024-08-19/a-towns-name-recalls-massacre-of-indigenous-californians)

#### Oct 15
- Take the reader there. Transport the reader into the scene.
- Ask the rhetorical question. 
- Rule of three
- Propel the reader through the story. Set up the quote and tell who is telling it. 
- Weave the nut graph into the story.
- Has been or was announced in the past tense and inactive.
- Make the subject of the sentence prominent. 
- Shorter is better 
  - conversational
  - rhythm
  - Interest
- Every new thought is a new sentence.
- Bite-size chunks of a story
- Take me out of the story. Nobody is interested in me and what I think.
- NO opinions or commentary
- Micro or Macro profile
  - Micro about the person
  - Macro about a subject using a person to tell the story.

#### Oct 3
We are writing other people's stories, not mine, so I can leave my commentary out. People are interested in their stories much more than mine. 

#### Sept 26

- Tie the quote to the story, and don't just describe the person's role—for example, a promoter for change and the head of the library. Describe them as involved in the story.

- You have to pitch 10 great stories before one will be picked up. Which means I should focus on getting good at pitching stories. 
  - in pitches, include foreshadowing of storytelling elements
  - Include sensory information and action in the pitch scenes to demonstrate writing abilities.
  - Ask yourself and put into the pitch why this is important right now.

- CLIPS
  - Get as many as I can
  - Focus them on the types of writing I want a future editor to recognize. 
  - Put more writing clips on my website kestrelcreek.com
  
- Storytelling details
  - Gather as many as possible so I have a huge pool to choose from in the writing stage.   
  - look for details that are not visual.
  - periodically mentally go through the list of five senses
  - Pair quotes with a sensory action.

- Triangulation
  - In each scene, place no more than three sensory details.

Another shad-mode moment. A narrative engine. This sounds like it is worth more exploration. Maybe it starts with a big question and slowly reveals the answer as the story progresses.

#### Sept 24
- File photos with stories.
- The lede and the nut graph form a contract with the reader.
- The more sources, the better.

Embodied Energy Battery [[202409240519]]
  - Seth put the example first, then the explanation of the example. This is more of a storytelling method. Start right in with the example, follow up with "This is an example of ..." and then remove this redundant phrase in the edit. 
  -  The story tells itself, letting the reader draw the meaning Seth wanted to convey.
  -  Saves the lightly suggested editorial for the very end. 

#### Sept 22

Lesson from honey bee paper.
1. New thought is a new paragraph. Adds impact.
2. Problem and remedy go together in the nut graph. The nut graph should foreshadow the ending.
3. Don't editorialize without attribution.
4. Be conversational - omit connector words like therefore, however, amongst.
5. The ending needs to wrap its way back to the lede. 

#### Sept 10

Working with story ideas
- Range/Scope 
  - make it tight
- Microcsum Profile
  - Use the person's interview as a jumping-off point to a more significant topic.
- Time 
  - Forward or backward, predicting the future or reminiscing the past.
- Movement
  - put the reader in a raft and guide them down the flow of the rapids.
- Details
  - Was his car a red Ford Pickup, or was his hair cut really short?
- Tell a story with drama, humor, or suspense.


Ingredients of a story
- Quantities - numbers, facts, and figures
- Locale - where does this story take place
- Diversity - don't repeat yourself
- Intensity - be active

----------------------------------
- 1-3 sentence paragraphs make the writing seem fast-paced.

- Every unforgettable story, whether imagined or experienced, is anchored by an invisible framework—a plot that reveals the unfolding events and a narrative arc that illustrates their significance.

From the "Story Behind the Story" sample presentation. [^2]
1. Be on the lookout for the lucky story idea or fragment, especially when on location.
2. Be sure to be open to surprises.
3. When you are knowledgeable about a story's subject, it is like going to a familiar grocery store. You know where everything is on the shelves.
4. "Lead with the weird."
5. Use 3X5 cards and a storyboard to outline the story.
6. The lede should be set up fast and with short, simple sentences. 
7. Playing dumb will sometimes lead to a lucky idea for the story.
8. Contact sources and share parts of the story to confirm facts and gain their approval.
9. Use the check mark method of fact-checking. Highlight every fact in the story and check them off one at a time.
10. Always ask, "Is there anything else I should know?" 

- Remember the reader. Make the story enjoyable for them. They don't know all you do, so you have to tell them in a way they find interesting.

- Make the story simple; don't use complex sentences. Say what you mean without added baggage.

----------------------------------
JAMM425 August 29, 2024 [[202408271956]]
    - Seminar notes.

- Always be on the lookout for that special something like the "stuffed animal" under the bench of the disagreement about the number of grandchildren. The story will lie there.
- Write with a mix of facts and emotions
  - How do I feel 
  - How does the subject feel
- Be super descriptive, but use this technique randomly (Tomato red shirt)
- Include full-body sensing
  - taste
  - touch
  - sight
  - hearing
  - smell
- name the song/book/food the stuff of the story
- start with a little mystery

- AP Style 
  - spell out numbers greater than 10
  - 5:00 p.m.
- Put dateline on assignments

From a Class Slide on 9/17
• DO: Look for powerful, specific details.
• DO: Use time and movement in your story to keep your tale moving and keep it interesting.
• DO: See yourself as a storyteller, not just as a reporter or fact-gatherer.
• DO: Experiment with your story and voice.
Take chances, have fun, and grow.
• DO: Read your story out loud. Find the rhythm in your words and writing, eliminate clunky passages
• DO: Use direct, active sentences and short, strong words. Less is more in good storytelling.
• DO: Tinker, rewrite, self-edit. Writing a first draft is essential, but rewriting until you get it right is the key to excellent writing. Give yourself enough time to do that.
• DO: Set realistic deadlines to force you to finish reporting, do an outline, write a draft and a final story.



----------------------------------
> In Tits Up, Sarah Thornton dives into the multifaceted world of breasts, approaching the subject with a blend of rigorous research, cultural analysis, and storytelling. The book is structured around interviews and essays that provide insight into how breasts are perceived, modified, and celebrated across different professions and cultures. Thornton's work spans from the historical to the contemporary, examining how breasts have been objectified, medicalized, and commodified. [^1]

Commit message:

Add section descriptions to multiple content files

content/1-wrjournal.md, after:

---
title: Write Right Journal 
nav: Journal
description: >
    This text is a "section description". Below is "section topics", followed by an example section video embed. This page details how to write content pages and add interest with includes.
---

Subatomic: Writing and editing tips and tricks.

# Lede
Great writing tips come from anywhere.

----------------------------------
#### Oct 22
- Multiple nut graphs with short words can be used to spell out the story. 
- Hyperlink embedded in the story.
- Create a simile from the relationships in the story
- let the reader know how the characters feel
- Set up quotes in advance, a prior sentence. 
- Write for Don. Tell a story in a conversation. 
- Animate the characters quoted.
- One-word exclamation works at the start or end of a paragraph, not in the middle.

#### Oct 19
- Interviewing Skills [[202410181608]]
     * Developing interviewing skills involves experimenting with various questions and approaches to foster trust and draw out honest responses.

#### Oct 17 
- Personal confession engagement. A way the reporter can be present in their story.
- Make a story containing how I, as the writer, learned or experienced something in the service of the story.
- Story and black cowboys and cowgirls
- What am I trying to convince the reader of? This is the start of the essential ideas in the story.
- Take the reader somewhere to show them where the digging happens. 

#### Oct 16
Start short paragraphs with these ideas.
- The town
- The grant
- The person
- Past/History then Now
- "It is said."
- Day to day
- "In an effort"
- Not the only
- The project promises to become
- This cycle
- Scientists make these projections
- The models are based on
- For example, 
- Researchers can use information about the
- This gives them more confidence in their projection
- To the soundtrack of ...

- [A casino project sparks conflict over tribal sovereignty and control of sacred lands](https://www.latimes.com/environment/story/2024-07-23/the-fight-over-a-mega-casino-sparks-a-debate-about-tribal-sovereignty)
- [A town's name recalls the massacre of Indigenous people. Will changing it bring healing?](https://www.latimes.com/environment/story/2024-08-19/a-towns-name-recalls-massacre-of-indigenous-californians)

#### Oct 15
- Take the reader there. Transport the reader into the scene.
- Ask the rhetorical question. 
- Rule of three
- Propel the reader through the story. Set up the quote and tell who is telling it. 
- Weave the nut graph into the story.
- Has been or was announced in the past tense and inactive.
- Make the subject of the sentence prominent. 
- Shorter is better 
  - conversational
  - rhythm
  - Interest
- Every new thought is a new sentence.
- Bite-size chunks of a story
- Take me out of the story. Nobody is interested in me and what I think.
- NO opinions or commentary
- Micro or Macro profile
  - Micro about the person
  - Macro about a subject using a person to tell the story.

#### Oct 3
We are writing other people's stories, not mine, so I can leave my commentary out. People are interested in their stories much more than mine. 

#### Sept 26

- Tie the quote to the story, and don't just describe the person's role—for example, a promoter for change and the head of the library. Describe them as involved in the story.

- You have to pitch 10 great stories before one will be picked up. Which means I should focus on getting good at pitching stories. 
  - in pitches, include foreshadowing of storytelling elements
  - Include sensory information and action in the pitch scenes to demonstrate writing abilities.
  - Ask yourself and put into the pitch why this is important right now.

- CLIPS
  - Get as many as I can
  - Focus them on the types of writing I want a future editor to recognize. 
  - Put more writing clips on my website kestrelcreek.com
  
- Storytelling details
  - Gather as many as possible so I have a huge pool to choose from in the writing stage.   
  - look for details that are not visual.
  - periodically mentally go through the list of five senses
  - Pair quotes with a sensory action.

- Triangulation
  - In each scene, place no more than three sensory details.

Another shad-mode moment. A narrative engine. This sounds like it is worth more exploration. Maybe it starts with a big question and slowly reveals the answer as the story progresses.

#### Sept 24
- File photos with stories.
- The lede and the nut graph form a contract with the reader.
- The more sources, the better.

Embodied Energy Battery [[202409240519]]
  - Seth put the example first, then the explanation of the example. This is more of a storytelling method. Start right in with the example, follow up with "This is an example of ..." and then remove this redundant phrase in the edit. 
  -  The story tells itself, letting the reader draw the meaning Seth wanted to convey.
  -  Saves the lightly suggested editorial for the very end. 

#### Sept 22

Lesson from honey bee paper.
1. New thought is a new paragraph. Adds impact.
2. Problem and remedy go together in the nut graph. The nut graph should foreshadow the ending.
3. Don't editorialize without attribution.
4. Be conversational - omit connector words like therefore, however, amongst.
5. The ending needs to wrap its way back to the lede. 

#### Sept 10

Working with story ideas
- Range/Scope 
  - make it tight
- Microcsum Profile
  - Use the person's interview as a jumping-off point to a more significant topic.
- Time 
  - Forward or backward, predicting the future or reminiscing the past.
- Movement
  - put the reader in a raft and guide them down the flow of the rapids.
- Details
  - Was his car a red Ford Pickup, or was his hair cut really short?
- Tell a story with drama, humor, or suspense.


Ingredients of a story
- Quantities - numbers, facts, and figures
- Locale - where does this story take place
- Diversity - don't repeat yourself
- Intensity - be active

----------------------------------
- 1-3 sentence paragraphs make the writing seem fast-paced.

- Every unforgettable story, whether imagined or experienced, is anchored by an invisible framework—a plot that reveals the unfolding events and a narrative arc that illustrates their significance.

From the "Story Behind the Story" sample presentation. [^2]
1. Be on the lookout for the lucky story idea or fragment, especially when on location.
2. Be sure to be open to surprises.
3. When you are knowledgeable about a story's subject, it is like going to a familiar grocery store. You know where everything is on the shelves.
4. "Lead with the weird."
5. Use 3X5 cards and a storyboard to outline the story.
6. The lede should be set up fast and with short, simple sentences. 
7. Playing dumb will sometimes lead to a lucky idea for the story.
8. Contact sources and share parts of the story to confirm facts and gain their approval.
9. Use the check mark method of fact-checking. Highlight every fact in the story and check them off one at a time.
10. Always ask, "Is there anything else I should know?" 

- Remember the reader. Make the story enjoyable for them. They don't know all you do, so you have to tell them in a way they find interesting.

- Make the story simple; don't use complex sentences. Say what you mean without added baggage.

----------------------------------
JAMM425 August 29, 2024 [[202408271956]]
    - Seminar notes.

- Always be on the lookout for that special something like the "stuffed animal" under the bench of the disagreement about the number of grandchildren. The story will lie there.
- Write with a mix of facts and emotions
  - How do I feel 
  - How does the subject feel
- Be super descriptive, but use this technique randomly (Tomato red shirt)
- Include full-body sensing
  - taste
  - touch
  - sight
  - hearing
  - smell
- name the song/book/food the stuff of the story
- start with a little mystery

- AP Style 
  - spell out numbers greater than 10
  - 5:00 p.m.
- Put dateline on assignments

From a Class Slide on 9/17
• DO: Look for powerful, specific details.
• DO: Use time and movement in your story to keep your tale moving and keep it interesting.
• DO: See yourself as a storyteller, not just as a reporter or fact-gatherer.
• DO: Experiment with your story and voice.
Take chances, have fun, and grow.
• DO: Read your story out loud. Find the rhythm in your words and writing, eliminate clunky passages
• DO: Use direct, active sentences and short, strong words. Less is more in good storytelling.
• DO: Tinker, rewrite, self-edit. Writing a first draft is essential, but rewriting until you get it right is the key to excellent writing. Give yourself enough time to do that.
• DO: Set realistic deadlines to force you to finish reporting, do an outline, write a draft and a final story.



----------------------------------
> In Tits Up, Sarah Thornton dives into the multifaceted world of breasts, approaching the subject with a blend of rigorous research, cultural analysis, and storytelling. The book is structured around interviews and essays that provide insight into how breasts are perceived, modified, and celebrated across different professions and cultures. Thornton's work spans from the historical to the contemporary, examining how breasts have been objectified, medicalized, and commodified. [^1]
