content/2-schedule.md, before:

---
title: Schedule of Assigments
nav: Assignement
---## Assignment Schedule
- Thu Aug 22, 2024 First writing exercise (ungraded)	Due by 5 PM
- Tue Aug 27, 2024 Guest speaker 1	Due by 11:59 PM
- Thu Aug 29, 2024 Second writing exercise	Due by 5 PM
- Tue Sep 3, 2024 Story Behind Story Presentation
- Thu Sep 5, 2024	Guest Speaker 2	Due by 11:59 PM
- Tue Sep 10, 2024	Story Behind the Story	Due by 12 PM
- Fri Sep 20, 2024 News feature story	Due by 11:59 PM
- Tue Sep 24, 2024 Third writing exercise	Due by 11:59 PM
- Thu Sep 26, 2024 Guest speaker 3	Due by 11:59 PM
- Fri Oct 4, 2024	Issue or trend feature	Due by 11:59 PM
- Thu Oct 10, 2024 First one-on-one conference	Due by 11:59 PM
- Fri Oct 11, 2024 In-depth project idea/pitch	Due by 11:59 PM
- Thu Oct 17, 2024 Guest speaker 4	Due by 11:59 PM
- Fri Oct 18, 2024 Newsmaker profile	Due by 11:59 PM
- Thu Oct 24, 2024 Guest speaker 5	Due by 11:59 PM
- Thu Oct 31, 2024 Guest speaker 6	Due by 11:59 PM
- Fri Nov 1, 2024	Diversity feature	Due by 11:59 PM
- Fri Nov 8, 2024 In-depth project outline	Due by 11:59 PM
- Thu Nov 14, 2024 Guest speaker 7	Due by 11:59 PM
- Fri Nov 15, 2024 Arts feature or review	Due by 11:59 PM
- Thu Nov 21, 2024 Guest speaker 8	Due by 11:59 PM
- Fri Nov 22, 2024 In-depth project first draft	Due by 11:59 PM
- Fri Dec 6, 2024	Attendance and participation	Due by 11:59 PM
- Fri Dec 6, 2024 Write Right Journal	Due by 11:59 PM
- Sat Dec 7, 2024	In-depth final project	Due by 11:59 PM
- Tue Dec 10, 2024 Extra credit	Due by 11:59 PM
- Tue Dec 10, 2024 Second one-on-one conference	Due by 11:59 PM

Commit message:

Add section descriptions to multiple content files

content/2-schedule.md, after:

---
title: Schedule of Assigments
nav: Assignement
description: >
    This text is a "section description". Below is "section topics", followed by an example section video embed. This page details how to write content pages and add interest with includes.
---

- Thu Aug 22, 2024 First writing exercise (ungraded)	Due by 5 PM
- Tue Aug 27, 2024 Guest speaker 1	Due by 11:59 PM
- Thu Aug 29, 2024 Second writing exercise	Due by 5 PM
- Tue Sep 3, 2024 Story Behind Story Presentation
- Thu Sep 5, 2024	Guest Speaker 2	Due by 11:59 PM
- Tue Sep 10, 2024	Story Behind the Story	Due by 12 PM
- Fri Sep 20, 2024 News feature story	Due by 11:59 PM
- Tue Sep 24, 2024 Third writing exercise	Due by 11:59 PM
- Thu Sep 26, 2024 Guest speaker 3	Due by 11:59 PM
- Fri Oct 4, 2024	Issue or trend feature	Due by 11:59 PM
- Thu Oct 10, 2024 First one-on-one conference	Due by 11:59 PM
- Fri Oct 11, 2024 In-depth project idea/pitch	Due by 11:59 PM
- Thu Oct 17, 2024 Guest speaker 4	Due by 11:59 PM
- Fri Oct 18, 2024 Newsmaker profile	Due by 11:59 PM
- Thu Oct 24, 2024 Guest speaker 5	Due by 11:59 PM
- Thu Oct 31, 2024 Guest speaker 6	Due by 11:59 PM
- Fri Nov 1, 2024	Diversity feature	Due by 11:59 PM
- Fri Nov 8, 2024 In-depth project outline	Due by 11:59 PM
- Thu Nov 14, 2024 Guest speaker 7	Due by 11:59 PM
- Fri Nov 15, 2024 Arts feature or review	Due by 11:59 PM
- Thu Nov 21, 2024 Guest speaker 8	Due by 11:59 PM
- Fri Nov 22, 2024 In-depth project first draft	Due by 11:59 PM
- Fri Dec 6, 2024	Attendance and participation	Due by 11:59 PM
- Fri Dec 6, 2024 Write Right Journal	Due by 11:59 PM
- Sat Dec 7, 2024	In-depth final project	Due by 11:59 PM
- Tue Dec 10, 2024 Extra credit	Due by 11:59 PM
- Tue Dec 10, 2024 Second one-on-one conference	Due by 11:59 PM
