content/2-The Art and Craft of Feature Writing 202408212021.md, before:

---
UUID:      ›[[202408212021]] 
cdate:     08-21-2024 08:21 PM 
title: The Art and Craft of Feature Writing
nav: The Art and Craft of Feature Writing
description: >
    Main note on The Art and Craft of Feature Writing.
---
## Introduction
- Good writing is about telling a story and including facts that are as true and interesting to others as they are to us. 

- It can't be stated strongly enough—you have to tell exciting stories all the time.

## Chapter 1 
- Story Raw Materials [[[202410200536](202410200536.md)]]

## Chapter 2 
- Shaping Ideas [[[202410200538](202410200538.md)]]

## Chapter 3
- Story Dimensions [[[202410200540](202410200540.md)]]

## Chapter 6 
- How to Craft a Lead That Draws Readers In [[[202410200541](202410200541.md)]]

## Chapter 7
- Wordcraft [[[202410191748](202410191748.md)]]

## Chapter 8
- Stretching Out [[[202410240837](202410240837.md)]]
  

----------------------------------

## References
- Blundell, William E. _The art and craft of feature writing: based on the Wall Street Journal guide_. 1988.

Commit message:

Enhance content in 2-The Art and Craft of Feature Writing 202408212021.md: add tags, update description, and improve structure with new sections and references

content/2-The Art and Craft of Feature Writing 202408212021.md, after:

---
UUID:      ›[[202408212021]] 
cdate:     08-21-2024 08:21 PM 
tags:      #proofing #JAMM425 #editorial-writing #writing #editing 
title: The Art and Craft of Feature Writing
nav: The Art and Craft of Feature Writing
description: >
    The HUB note on The Art and Craft of Feature Writing.
---
## Introduction
- Good writing is about telling a story and including facts that are as true and interesting to others as they are to us. 

- It can't be stated strongly enough—you have to tell exciting stories all the time.

## Chapter 1 
- Story Raw Materials [[[202410200536](202410200536.md)]]

## Chapter 2 
- Shaping Ideas [[[202410200538](202410200538.md)]]

## Chapter 3
- Story Dimensions [[[202410200540](202410200540.md)]]

## Chapter 6 
- How to Craft a Lead That Draws Readers In [[[202410200541](202410200541.md)]]

## Chapter 7
- Wordcraft [[202410191748]]
    - Storytelling thrives on clarity of ideas, specificity of language, and the movement of characters.

## Chapter 8
- Stretching Out [[[202410240837](202410240837.md)]]
  

----------------------------------
## See Also
- First, You Write A Sentence [[202012092105]]
     * The elements of reading, writing, and life.- Writing Without Teachers [[202303221435]]
     * by Peter Elbow, where he makes a case for massive freewriting.- First We Read, Then We Write [[202105121536]]
- How To Write Short [[202012261545]]
     * All these pointers are focused on short writing, which is considered 300 words or less. This is a flexible number.- Weinberg On Writing: The Fieldstone Method [[202302252046]]
     * A super metaphor for note-taking. Create a pile of 'fieldstones' that can be used to assemble a wall or whatever.
- Good Writing Habits [[202303121527]]
     * Smart writing tips centered around observation and taking the opportunity to make notes everywhere.

## References
- Blundell, William E. _The art and craft of feature writing: based on the Wall Street Journal guide_. 1988. 
- [[B-The Art and Craft of Feature Writing 202408212021]]
