---
UUID:      ›[[202410240837]] 
cdate:     10-24-2024 08:37 AM
tags:       #proofing #JAMM425 #editorial-writing #writing #editing 
title:     Stretching Out
description: >
    
---
Subatomic: 

Source: Chapter 8 - The Art and Craft of Feature Writing [[[202408212021](2-The Art and Craft of Feature Writing 202408212021.md)]]

## Note Building Reminders
- Does the title express the idea? 
- Express the note's theme by writing a lede.
- Are the references captured?
- Who is the source, and should they be in the title?
- Check if the idea wants to connect to a thinking canvas. 
- Does this zettel need to be atomized?
- Add Links.
- Keywords are tags! *Which project is this associated with?* Is this an issue, or position, or argument? What is its topic, relevance, source, status, structure, concept/umbrella, deliverable, social context, or procedure?

### Outline
    1. Theories
    2. Models
    3. Definitions
    4. Arguments
    5. Counterarguments
    6. Facts

-----
## The Main Theme/Lede

One way of creating a transition is to make a subheading. It denotes to the reader a new chapter. This doesn't jar the reader.

> But the reader is not jarred because we have signaled the sudden shifts with the special subheads. The typographical device tells him that we aren’t trying to weave a seamless web here. This device and others like it—star dashes, or simply extra spacing between unrelated passages—is the prose equivalent of the film director’s sudden cut to a different scene
> 

> The last four paragraphs, set apart typographically, form a sort of epilogue. It is handled dispassionately, with no intrusion of the writer’s feelings, no bells and whistles—and that’s why it is effective. The bare recitation of facts in these paragraphs has an emotional wallop that derives from the reader’s knowledge of all that has gone before. Embroidering it would ruin it
> 

> great journalism. It does not skim over the surface of events but strikes deep and hard at the elemental core of human nature, and so is timeless in its appeal.
> 
 

----------------------------------

## References
- Blundell, William E. _The art and craft of feature writing: based on the Wall Street Journal guide_. 1988. 
